# Directory structure
* c: Has the c files specific to use of this accelerator, alongside softlinks for the Rosebud C library. <ins>pigasus.c</ins> implements the reordering in SW, while <ins>pigasus2.c</ins> assumes HW reordering in the load balancer and omits that part.
* python: Has the scripts to generate pcap traces for testing.
* rtl: The Verilog files for the accelerator, generated by the python scripts and template files, same method that Pigasus implemented them. The main change was to add ips.sv, which includes basic modules with the same interface as Intel modules that were used in the Pigasus accelerator, but with Verilog syntax to be able to simulate and port to the Xilinx platform. Also we added a write port to the large ROMs, so we can initialize them by host through the Rosebud framework. Finally, there is the accelerator wrapper module to connect the accelerator within an RPU.
* tb: The testbench to use the accelerator, including the top-level test wrapper module in Verilog, and the testbench in Python.
* pcaps: A makefile to run the case study tests for Pigasus. Specifically, it sets the proper attack rate to be injected to the background traffic.
* HLS_test: In an effort to generate the Pigasus with HLS, we tried to parse the rules into C code (using a Python parser in the corresponding directory), and then use Vitis HLS to generate the accelerator. Unfortunately, it took Vitis really long time and the output would have been less efficient. Therefore, we forwent the effort, but kept the scripts for future use. <ins>pigasus3.c</ins> file in the c directory is also related to this effort.
